# Property of a dimension

Dimension can be thought as a collection of all possible state. For example, top face of a coin  can be head or tail so all possible states are two which is the set size of top face for a coin. Similarly top face of 6 sided dice can be one out of 6.  Another example is the month of the Year. If we think the month at any instance as a dimension, it is obvious that it has finite 12 months so discrete dimension. For the latter, I would like to mention that it is possible to define the distance between any two possible state of the month dimension. Considering time flows always forward, the distance from between April to August in same year can be easily calculated which is 4 unit distance if we define a month as a unit.

Previous two examples have finite number of states so their dimension is discrete. On the other hand, real number have infinite number of state so continuous dimension. Generally in a continuous dimension such as real number or x axis of our 3 dimensional space there are infinite number of possible states and the size of each state or element is believed as zero. In discrete dimension aforementioned, it is common belief that the size of an element is non-zero unit length.

It seems to be boring and tedious but important to know what makes difference between continuous and discrete dimension is the length of unit for the dimension. In later section, I will show my thoughts on the continuity/discreteness of dimension for the most fundamental elements consisting of our universe: Space, time and energy. To better understand quantum mechanics, it is crucial to know correctly what a dimension is continuous or discrete truly means and why a discrete dimension exists in reality. Readers may feel strange on my introduction my private view on these topics, but bear with me it will show you whole new way of thinking and view point to understand our universe much better.
